Viewer


SPECIFICATION


OVERVIEW

A simple team organizer that allows the user view and store a season and the players.  


DETAILS

The program interacts with the user as shown in the following example:

The main view:


Commands:

1) Start a new season
2) Add a player
3) Search for players
4) Print a list of players
5) Display statistics
6) Stop the program

Command:


On first load the program asks the user for a year.  This is the year for this season.

On load gets players' information from the save file.

The main view lists 6 commands that you can use. Here is a description of the main view commands:

	Start a new season: Asks the user for a new year and wipes all previous data. Asks user for confirmation beforehand.

	Add a player: Sequentailly asks the user for Last Name, First Name, Year of Birth, and Registration Status. Checks year of birth and registration status to see if they are valid.

	Search for players: Goes to the search screen, where the user is given instructions on how to search. 

	Print a list of players: Asks the user for a filename and then prints the year and all the players' information in order of category and last name to the given file.

	Display statistics: Goes to the statistics view.

	Stop the program: Saves the year and all the players' information to a save file and quits the program.
	
	
The search view:


Items: First Name, Last Name, Keyword, Year of Birth, Registration Status, Category

Names must be exact, Keyword is any sequence of characters in a name

Year of Birth should be a four digit number, Registration Status must be exact

Category should be a 'U' followed by a number

Each item should be entered in order. If you do not want to enter an item, use a '-'

Search:


There are 6 items, all of which must be entered in order. The user can enter any value they want for any item. 

If they do not want to search for a certain item, they can enter a '-' to skip the search for that item. 

Once all 6 items have been entered, the program will go to the search results screen if any players meeting all criteria were found

Will print out a message saying no players were found if none were found and returns to the main view.


The search results view:


Player 1 out of 3

Name: Jiang, Eric
Year of Birth: 2014
Registration Status: paid
Category: U6

Commands:
1) Search for players
2) Move to next player
3) Move to previous player
4) Edit a player's information
5) Print a list of players
6) Exit the search results view
7) Stop the program


The number of players and the currently viewed player are shown at the top.

The players information is then shown on four lines.

Then are the list of commands. The program is currently waiting for the user to enter one.

Commands:

	Search for players: Same as main view, goes to search view.
	
	Move to next player: Displays the next player. Will loop around.
	
	Move to previous player: Displays the previous player. Will loop around.
	
	Edit a player's information: Goes to the edit view.
	
	Print a list of players: Asks the user for a filename, and then prints all the players in this search to that file in order of last name.
	
	Exit the search results view: Returns to the main view.
	
	Stop the program: Same as main view, saves all data and quits.


The edit view:

Eric Jiang 2014 paid

1) Change first name
2) Change last name
3) Change birth year
4) Change status
5) Done

Change:


Displays the current information for that palyer at the top.

Gives a list of commands.

Commands:

	Change first name: Asks for a new first name.
	
	Change last name: Asks for a new last name.
	
	Change birth year: Asks for a new birth year. Automatically computes new category. Checks to see that the year is valid.
	
	Change status: Asks for a new status. Checks to see that the status is valid.
	
	Done: Returns to search results view, viewing the edited player.
	

The statistics view:

Total Players: 2

U8:
paid: 1
unpaid: 0

U17:
paid: 1
unpaid: 0

Enter any Character to Continue


Shows total number of players at the top.

For each category, shows the number of players that have paid and the number that haven't.

Once user is ready the porgram returns to the main view.



NOTES FOR LATER VERSIONS

Implement better code seperation. Example, class for everything to deal with searching.
